# Title: Module 3 Challenge Part 2 (PyPoll)
# Author:  Michael Jardinico
# version: 1.0
# Date created: 9/24/23

## Description: 
This Python script modernizes vote-counting process of a particular database file called election_data.csv. The dataset is composed of three columns: "Ballot ID", "County" and "Candidate. The script calculates the following values:

    1. The total number of votes cast
    2. A complete list of candidates who received votes
    3. The percentage of votes each candidate won
    4. The total number of votes each candidate won
    5. The winner of the election based on popular vote

# Dependencies
The script is written in Python 3.11, although it may run using earlier versions of 3.x. It uses the `csv`, `os`, and `sys` modules from the Python standard library.

# Installing
1. Create a new repository for this project called python-challenge. 
2. Clone the new repository to your computer.
3. Inside your local Git repository, create a folder called PyPoll
4. Inside PyBank folder that you just created, add the following content: 
   a. A new file called main.py. This will be the main script to run for each analysis.
   b. "Resources" folder that contains the CSV files you used. The file is named 
      election_data.csv
   c. Make sure the script has the correct path to the CSV file.
   c. An "analysis" folder. This will later contain the text file, as the output file 
      generated by the script.  
   d. Push any changes to the script to GitHub or GitLab.

# Getting Started
1. Open main.py using Visual Studio Code or any editor of your choice
2. Run the script or code
3. The code runs successfully if it displays in the terminal the following results:
    Election Results
    ---------------------------
    Total Votes: 369711
    ---------------------------
    Charles Casper Stockham: 23.048% (85212)
    Diana DeGette: 73.812% (272892)
    Raymon Anthony Doane: 3.139% (11606)
    ---------------------------
    Winner:  Diana DeGette
    ---------------------------

    NOTE:  The results may vary if changes were made in the original CSV file (election_results.csv)

4. After the code runs, it will create a .txt file called election_results.txt in the "analysis" folder


