# Title: Module 3 Challenge Part 1
# Author:  Michael Jardinico
# version: 1.0
# Date created: 9/24/23

## Description: 
This Python script analyzes the financial records of a company, based on a given a financial dataset called budget_data.csv. The dataset is composed of two columns: "Date" and "Profit/Losses". The script calculate each of the following values:

    1. The total number of months included in the dataset
    2. The net total amount of "Profit/Losses" over the entire period
    3. The changes in "Profit/Losses" over the entire period, and then the average of 
       those changes
    4. The changes in "Profit/Losses" over the entire period, and then the average of 
       those changes
    5. The greatest increase in profits (date and amount) over the entire period
    6. The greatest decrease in profits (date and amount) over the entire period

# Dependencies
The script is written in Python 3.11, although it may run using earlier versions of 3.x. It uses the `csv`, `os`, and `sys` modules from the Python standard library.

# Installing
1. Create a new repository for this project called python-challenge. 
2. Clone the new repository to your computer.
3. Inside your local Git repository, create a folder called PyBank
4. Inside PyBank folder that you just created, add the following content: 
   a. A new file called main.py. This will be the main script to run for each analysis.
   b. "Resources" folder that contains the CSV files you used. The file is named 
      budget_data.csv
   c. Make sure the script has the correct path to the CSV file.
   c. An "analysis" folder. This will later contain the text file, as the output file 
      generated by the script.  
   d. Push any changes to the script to GitHub or GitLab.

# Getting Started
1. Open main.py using Visual Studio Code or any editor of your choice
2. Run the script or code
3. The code runs successfully if it displays in the terminal the following results:
    Total Months:  86
    Total:  22564198
    Average Changes: ($-8311.11)
    Greatest Increase in Profits: Aug-16 ($1862002)
    Greatest Decrease in Profits: Feb-14 ($-1825558)

    NOTE:  The results may vary if changes were made in the original CSV file (budget_data.csv)

